gravity is what keeps your feet firmly
planted on the ground
that's why the average person can only
jump about one and a half feet straight
up
but if we had to live on another planet
say
venus or saturn let's find out what
difficulties we'd have to endure there
we'll try mercury first as it's closest
to the sun
the gravity on this planet is less than
half that on earth
so you'll be able to jump about four
feet high
that is if you can stand the
temperatures on the sunny side
the heat reaches 800 degrees to be there
is like standing neck deep in dark red
lava on the slopes of a volcano
oh boy knight won't bring much respite
either
scorching air will quickly chill to
minus 280
degrees you'll also have to be patient
since one day on mercury
lasts 176 earth days well
hopping from this inhospitable place to
even less welcoming
venus you'd be able to see earth from
here if not for the whirling mass of
clouds above
they create a monstrous greenhouse
effect as well as immense atmospheric
pressure
if you were to jump here you'd make it
just shy of 1.7 feet high
because the mass and size of earth and
venus are almost similar with venus
being a little smaller
besides the constant temperature of a
blazing furnace
rain here wouldn't bring relief the
clouds up there are made of sulfuric
acid skipping our home planet we go
straight for its moon
luna as it's otherwise called gravity
here is less than a fifth of that on
earth
so if you jump you'll rise almost nine
feet in the air
and won't touch the ground again for
several seconds it's hard to believe
this desolate piece of space rock makes
tides on earth habit
and if you stay on the moon long enough
as in a couple million years
you'll see how much further it's gone
from our home planet
next destination is mars the red planet
here a vertical jump will take you about
four feet in the air
if there was any air to speak of of
course mars has an atmosphere
but it's much thinner than on earth if
you stay here until evening
you'll be able to marvel at a beautiful
blue sunset
and you can probably see a mountain from
here that's olympus mons
the tallest mountain in the solar system
it's almost three times taller than
everest
and it's also a volcano by the way
leaping from here to phobos one of the
two moons of mars
plant your feet firmly and don't be
attempted to jump
gravity here is so weak that you won't
be able to return
phobos is really small compared to other
modes in the solar system
no larger than a big asteroid it's
almost a hundred times closer to its
planet than
our moon to earth eventually it's doomed
to be pulled
critically close to mars and shatter
scientists believe mars can obtain its
own rings then much like saturn
now we're going to a really weird object
it's called
ceres and it's the largest asteroid in
the solar system
so large in fact it was later classified
as a dwarf planet
it's almost exactly halfway between mars
and jupiter
somewhere in the main asteroid belt if
you jump here
you'll be taken up almost 52 feet and
then
slowly fall back ceres is so massive
that it accounts for a third of all mass
in the asteroid belt
fast forward to the next waypoint
jupiter
being a gas giant this planet has no
solid surface
so jumping here is irrelevant but if you
must
you could only hop about 6 inches high
jupiter is more than 10 times larger
than earth
and 300 times as massive so its gravity
is enormous there's also a perpetual
storm on its surface that's been there
for at least
four centuries although it's getting
smaller with time
at the moment our whole planet could fit
into that storm
our next stop is ganymede the largest of
jupiter's moons
it's solid so you can easily jump here
and make it over 10 feet high
this moon is larger than mercury but its
mass is significantly lower
which makes gravity rather weak ganymede
is covered in thick ice
and deep beneath that is a liquid metal
core
this core is why ganymede is the only
moon to have a pretty strong magnetic
field
next we go to saturn the second gas
giant of the solar system
it's only slightly smaller than jupiter
able to fit
nine and a half moons in it but way less
massive
if it had any hard surface to jump from
you'd be able to hop as high as 1.4 feet
in the air
almost as high as on our planet saturn
is most famous for its rings
which are particles of dust and ice left
from impacts with different space
objects it spins so fast around its axis
that it has flattened itself
almost into an oblong shape it also has
62 moons only 5 fewer than jupiter
let's explore one of them right now
hopping further and here we are
on the largest moon of saturn titan
jumping here will take you just shy of
11 feet high
the atmosphere of this moon is most
peculiar it's heavy
and mostly consists of nitrogen making
the surface appear hazy
it's also made almost entirely of ice
but there's rock underneath
and water is only thought to be deep
below near the core
and one amazing thing on titan's outside
are cryovolcanoes
volcanoes that spew ice instead of lava
next on our path is uranus another giant
only this one is made of
ice in fact it's mostly similar to
jupiter and saturn
but it has much more ice in its
atmosphere and mantle
jumping here will take you up about 1.7
feet
uranus is also the lowest minimum
temperature of all planets in the system
at minus 377 degrees it's colder than
liquid nitrogen
so you'll freeze right where you stand
cool
really our route continues with neptune
the twin brother of uranus
it's also an ice giant and although a
bit smaller in size
it's much more massive because of this
mass the gravity here is also impressive
you'd only be able to jump about 1.3
feet
one year on neptune takes almost 165
earth years
because it's 30 times further from the
sun than we are
in fact this is the last proved planet
of the solar system
but our hopping trip isn't finished yet
we're arriving to triton one of
neptune's moons
gravity here is not extremely low so a
single jump would take you a comfortable
19 feet up triton is the only moon that
moves in a retrograde orbit
that is against the movement of neptune
around its axis
it also has a unique surface feature
called cantaloupe terrain
for its similarity to a melon next is
the dark and lonely pluto
formerly the ninth planet but now no
more than a dwarf planet
its gravity is somewhat lower than that
of triton's and you could jump over 25
feet high here
pluto is too small to be a fully fledged
planet
it's smaller than many moons including
ours its atmosphere appears and
disappears at times
when pluto is closer to the sun the ice
on its surface evaporates to become the
atmosphere
but as soon as it travels further the
gas layer goes away
so hold your breath and finally our
final stop finally it's eris
it's a dwarf planet that travels in and
out of the kuiper belt
a second asteroid belt that's 20 times
as wide as the one between mars and
jupiter
jumping on eris's surface would take you
up about 18 feet
this object was actually the reason why
the term dwarf planet appeared in the
first place
astronomers wanted to call it the tenth
planet of the solar system
but then reconsidered and if they hadn't
who knows
maybe we would have had even more
planets afterwards
oops this just in the universe really
doesn't care what we deem planets or
moons
it's too busy with important stuff